The term Animal as described in the dictionary means a living organism other than humans which feeds and usually has sense organs and a nervous system and can move. Animals include a vast majority of species. Humans belong to Homo Sapiens and are bipedal species. This means that the humans walk around using their two rear limbs.
Animals would normally only include multi cells and complex organisms. Organisms like the bacteria will not be included in the animal kingdom. In most animals the dietary habits are very limited which means that they would either be vegetarians or non-vegetarians. The Humans on the other hand are omnivorous which means that they are able to consume both vegetarian and non-vegetarian foods.
Animals cannot talk or communicate with each other. In some species that the skills have been found these are very basic and undeveloped. Humans on the other hand are the only known species with highly developed communication skills.
Animals merely feed to survive and reproduce. They have not developed any skills that go beyond their survival needs. The Humans are known for their curiosity to understand and to try and influence and change their environment. It is this curiosity in the Humans that has lead to the development of advanced tools, technology and science. The human behavior is much different from the animals as we have set purposes in life that go beyond the survival needs of day today.
The Humans are highly social beings and live in large colonies. The Humans are the only known species that has the ability to domesticate animals and engage in agriculture. With the invention of advanced techniques and technology the Humans have been able to colonise all the continents. Through this colonization the humans have infringed on the land where these animals once survived and created a problem of existence for them.
1. Animals may cover a lot of species whereas Humans belong to Homo Sapiens.
2. Most animals walk on all four legs on crawl whereas Humans are Bipeds.
3. Animals tend to be either herbivorous or carnivorous and stick to their diets whereas the Humans are omnivorous.
4. Animals are unable to communicate like Humans do.
5. Animals are endangered due to the Human influence on their environment.
6. Whereas Animals simply survive in their environment, Humans have developed technology & science to change their environment.